# Set Up and Configuration
We will now set up and configure our development environment for Node.js.

#### package.json
If you're developing a Node program or library for deployment, it's a good practice to include a package.json file. This file is a manifest of the Node project and is located at your project root. It contains various information specific to your project.

- Create a new folder called *node_lab1* in your new repo.
- Open a terminal window in *node_lab1* and enter the following command:

> ```javascript
npm init
```

You will be prompted for details.

- Enter the following:


> ```json
name: (node_lab1)
version: (1.0.0) 0.0.1
description: node lab 1
entry point: (index.js)
test command:
git repository: https://your_git_domain/ewd_labs_2017.git
keywords:
author: fxwalsh
license: (ISC)
```

You should now see a ``package.json`` file in the lab folder with these details.

#### Babel

We will be writing our Javascript using ES2015 so we require transcoding before our Node app runs. We need to bring in some babel packages to handle this.

- Enter the following command to get the relevant babel package and relevant  presets.

> ```script
npm install --save-dev babel-cli
npm install --save-dev babel-preset-es2015 babel-preset-stage-2
```

The --save-dev will write this dependency to the development section of the package.json.

- To configure babel to transcode from es2015, create a file called **.babelrc** in the **node_lab1** folder and enter in the following:

> ```json
{
  "presets": ["es2015"]
}
```

#### Express
To create a node web server, we're going to use Express.js so we need to install this as a normal dependancy.

- Install the express package.

> ```
npm install --save express
```

The --save will write this dependency to package.json.

#### Nodemon
When we change things in a Node.js project, a restart is required for the changes to be reflected in the running process. This can be very time consuming. Instead of manually restarting Node, we will install the ``nodemon`` package, which can monitor our files and auto-restart Node for us when we save changes to disk.

- Install Nodemon:

> ```script
npm install --save-dev nodemon
```

We want to specify a script we want to run for the Node server, which will be the server.js file. So our start script would be ``node server.js``. However, since we want the code to work with babel and nodemon, we want to add a nodemon execution wrapper and use babel-node instead of node.

- Modify the package.json file and replace the *scripts* property with the following:

> ```json
....
"scripts": {
    "start": "nodemon --exec babel-node server.js"
  },
....
```

#### Linting
Finally, it'd be good to get feedback on the quality of your code as you write it. ESLint is a tool for identifying and reporting on patterns found in ECMAScript/JavaScript code. It kind of tells you if your code looks lousy! Install as follows.

> ```javascript
npm install eslint babel-eslint
```

- To configure ESLint, enter the following at the command line:

> ```shell
eslint --init
```

- Answer the resulting questions as follows:

> How would you like to configure ESLint? Use a popular style guide

> Which style guide do you want to follow? Google

> What format do you want your config file to be in? JSON


#### App Config
Your application will need some typical configuration details, for example the port and host info.

- Create a new file in your application root folder called **config.js** and add the following content:


```javascript

const env = process.env;

export const nodeEnv = env.NODE_ENV || 'development';

export const logStars = function(message) {
  console.info('**********');
  console.info(message);
  console.info('**********');
};

export default {
  port: env.PORT || 8080,
  host: env.HOST || 'localhost',
  get serverUrl(){
    return 'http://${this.host}:${this.port}';
  }
};

```

This configuration will be used in your server-side APIs.

#### Commit it

Now that we have a our basic setup and configuration complete, this is a good time to commit your changes to git.

- As in previous labs, change directory to the ewd_labs_2017 folder and do the following:

> ```shell
git add -A
git commit -m "set up and configuration"
```

You should see an output indicating only one file was updated. This is because we are ignoring node_modules. We do not need to track changes here as it's contents are specified in the package.json.
