# Node Package Manager

Node Package Manager(NPM), is the program you use to install third party Node modules. It comes with more recent versions of Node so no need to install it. 

###package.json
If you're developing a Node program or library for deployment, it's a good practice to include a package.json file. This file is a manifest of the Node project and is located at your project root. It contains various information specific to your project. To create a package.json file, run the following in the *node-lab-1* folder:
```
npm init
```
You'll now be asked a few questions about your node app. Answer as follows:
- name: (node-lab-1) 
- version: (1.0.0) ;
- description: simple http server;
- entry point: app1.js;
- keywords: http node
- author: *your name*
- license: (ISC) 

You can leave the others blank.




###Installing Modules
####Local Modules
The most common usage of npm is to install packages that have been published to the npm registry. An example is the [express](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express) package. To install request, open a terminal/command prompt in the node-lab-1 folder. Enter the following command:
```
npm install express --save
```
This will install the package to the ``node_modules`` folder in the project folder. All locally installed modules will be installed here. 
To use the package, add another "require" to the server code:
```
require('express')
```
We will be using the Express package later on to help us create web apis.

###Add .gitignore file
It's probably best to let NPM, and the *package.json* file, manage the project dependencies contained in node_modules folder. Create a new  file using a text editor and enter the following text:

    node_modules 

Save the file as ```.gitignore``` in your *node-lab-1* folder.

###Commit changes
Do a ```git status```. Notice the modules contained in the ```node_modules``` folder are not listed. Git will ignore them from now on. Now add and commit your changes as usual.


---

