# Express Applications

We'll now add some static content to our web server. Up to now you've used http-server which is fine for prototyping HTML. We'll now move to Express, the package we installed in the last section. Express is a richer web app package and provides a nice high level approach to serving up static content. It's based around the idea of creating an Express "app" that you can easily configure. One of the configuration options allows you to specify the location of your publicly available content such as static HTML, CSS, client-side Javascript files etc.

- In your *node-lab-1* folder, create the following folder structure:
```
+public 
    |-javascript
    |-stylesheets
``` 
- Add the html from your last lab to the public folder. Alternatively, you can add the solution to *lab2* from [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BxtnCYpIWp3Da215RGhIT0JyYjQ/view?usp=sharing). Make sure the files are in the public folder.
- In node-lab-1, create a new file called *app2.js*  that contains the following javascript:

```javascript
var express = require('express');
//create an express app
var app = express();

// Configure the app to serve up content from public directory
app.use(express.static(__dirname + '/public'));
  
// Listen on port 8000, IP defaults to 127.0.0.1
app.listen(8000)

// Put a friendly message on the terminal
console.log("Server running at http://127.0.0.1:8000/");
```

- Run the express server by entering ``node app2.js`` at the terminal/command line as before. Now test the application as before in a browser. It should work exactly as before. 

####Simple Routing
Express gives us an easy way of mapping specific URL paths to Javascript functions. You will now replicate the functionality from the "Hello World" section so that a HTTP GET request for the URL path  '/greeting/' will respond with "Hello World". Modify the server.js by adding an ``app.get([route],[callback function])``.
- Modify the server.js script to include a route for /greeting that responds with "hello world".

```javascript
var express = require('express');
//Add greeting module
var greeting = require('./greeting');
//create an express app
var app = express();

// Configure the app to serve up content from public directory
app.use(express.static(__dirname + '/public'));

//add route for /greeting 
app.get('/greeting',function (request, response) {
  response.writeHead(200, {"Content-Type": "text/plain"});
  response.end(greeting.english());
});
  
// Listen on port 8000, IP defaults to 127.0.0.1
app.listen(8000)

// Put a friendly message on the terminal
console.log("Server running at http://127.0.0.1:8000/");
```
###Commit and Push to Github
Commit your changes using git as before.
Now push your changes to your remote repository.

```git push origin master```
